hello and welcome to my live today let's
get myself situated here
all right today we are going to be
talking about how to start a business
for free so if you're here live welcome
if you're here for the replay later
welcome as well for those who don't know
me my name is jill i'm a digital
marketing coach and teacher as well as a
google ads expert and i built my
business over the last year the day i'm
recording this is actually the one year
anniversary of posting my first tick
tock and although i did not intend to
start a business at the time i ended up
starting a business because of that so i
wanted to come on here today and share
with you exactly the process i followed
when starting my business and then of
course answer any questions you may have
about starting a business as well so
whether you're here live or watching the
replay please feel free to drop any
questions you have for me in the
comments and i will answer them to the
best of my abilities
all right so you know you want to start
a business or maybe you don't know you
want to start a business where should
you start
my best recommendation and what i teach
all the entrepreneurs i coach whether in
my business or at the various startup
accelerators i work with is to start
with your target customer
it can be really tempting to say i'm
going to start a business what product
should i sell and in my opinion that's a
totally backwards way of thinking about
it if you want to start a business start
with a customer because at the end of
the day for a successful business you
need to convince some people to buy
something from you so who are those
people going to be and be really
specific for example if you just say
moms i want my customers to be moms
there are a lot of different kinds of
moms that's not specific enough thank
you for the love from switzerland
so think about your ideal target
customer when i started posting on tick
tock i decided that i wanted to be on
small business tick tock but
specifically i wanted to really serve
new business owners people who like me
were just starting a business but maybe
unlike me didn't have the same business
or marketing experience so i wanted to
focus on new business owners or people
who are planning to start a business
soon and haven't even started yet it's
important to note that your business can
have multiple customer segments and you
can use different ways to reach them
we'll get into that
so for example on twitter my target
audience is totally different on twitter
my target audience is fellow google ads
experts and my content there is really
different the services i advertise they
are different but it all ties in to the
same business so just because you're
choosing one specific target audience
doesn't mean that's all you do but it's
better to start in one place serve one
customer segment really well and then
expand from there
hello from south africa thank you for
joining me okay so once you have a
specific target customer in mind for
today that's going to be new business
owners new small business owners the
next step is to put yourself in your
customers shoes and decide
what are the problems they're facing and
what do i want to try to solve for them
so my case because i was also a new
business owner at the time
one of the most complicated things for
new business owners is figuring out how
to set up all your marketing stuff how
to set up a website how to set up a
domain how to set up your google
business profile and get your analytics
in place there are many other challenges
new business owners face like tax
challenges or legal challenges but i
decided i'm not going to speak to those
that's not my expertise my expertise is
as a marketer and in free google tools
and so i decided that's what my business
is going to be to start helping new
business owners
take advantage of the free google tools
that are available to them because the
challenge i was seeing is that they were
getting overwhelmed by all the tools are
not even aware that some of them exist
and hi to those that are just joining me
i'm jill i'm a digital marketing
consultant coach and teacher and i'm
sharing a step-by-step process of
exactly how i started my business and
how you can start yours if you have any
questions now here in this live or in
this replay on youtube later drop them
in the comments and i'll answer them to
the best of my abilities
so once you have your target audience in
mind for me new business owners and you
figured out the unique value that you
can bring to that audience for me how to
get your business started on google
all of a sudden you have the beginnings
of a business so now the next step now
that we know our plan of who we're
trying to reach and what we're going to
offer them
you have to think about
how am i uniquely positioned to offer
this value so for example there are
plenty of people who could offer tips
about growing your business on google to
new business owners what's the unique
value i can offer to them and the key
here is not just to talk about the
features but the benefits i'll give you
an example
a feature of my business would be i used
to work at google so i know what i'm
talking about
that's nice and that adds some
credibility but what's the benefit to my
target customer of the fact that i used
to work at google
it's that my advice is trustworthy and
based on years of experience nope that's
still a feature let me think again on
that a benefit to them
is that
i'm a one stop that they can come to one
place and get trustworthy information
for free that would be a benefit that
it's free that it's trustworthy
thank you paul and i've seen a question
can i do a keyword analysis on google
for free absolutely i've done a bunch of
videos about that so you'll want to
check out my playlist on tick tock all
about google ads for beginners
okay so today we're talking about
starting a business for free we have
your target customer
we have the challenge you're going to
solve for them and then how you're
uniquely positioned to solve that
challenge
now
we're ready to start marketing and a lot
of people confuse marketing with sales
so marketing isn't just about buy from
you buy from me buy from me if you were
to go to wikipedia which i have done and
look up the definition of marketing it
says something i agree with marketing is
all about creating value for a target
customer
think about that for a moment marketing
is not about selling or getting people
to buy from you it's about creating
value
now there are many ways to launch a
business but the free way to do it is to
create content just like i'm doing right
now that's going to add value for your
target audience and once you've added
value for them and their business grows
or maybe you're not helping them grow a
business maybe you're selling them a
candle or a running shoe or whatever it
might be once you add value for them
they in turn can come back and add value
for you
by buying from you
so when you first start creating content
in order to market your business i
suggest picking just one platform where
you feel most comfortable for me that's
video for some people that's going to be
image based so pinterest or instagram
may work for you for some people that's
going to be text based so maybe twitter
is a better outlet for you but pick just
one place to start
and add
value for your target customer
to those who are just joining my name is
jill i started my business exactly a
year ago today when i'm filming this and
i'm sharing a step-by-step process of
how you can start your business just
like i did feel free to ask me any
questions in the comments here or if
you're watching this on youtube in the
comments there and i will answer them to
the best of my abilities
so you have your target customer you
know the challenge you're going to solve
for them and why you are uniquely
positioned to do that
then you're going to pick a channel
where you feel most comfortable creating
content and start creating valuable
content what that means is you're not
going to come on here and say hi my name
is jill buy my services because people
will be like whoa
we're not there yet
instead you want to create content
around the challenges they're facing and
how you can help
hey i'm jill i used to work at google
and did you know that you can get your
business on google for free in three
different ways let me show you or hey
i'm jill i used to work at google i'm
going to show you a common mistake that
people make when they're first getting
started with google ads so you don't
make that mistake as well
you want to add value for them the best
analogy i like to use here for content
creation is to think of it like dating
you probably don't show up for a first
date and say hi my name is jill let's
get out of here
i mean maybe you do but in marketing or
launching a business week we don't want
to do that because most people will be
turned off by that you want them to be
turned on by that you want to have your
small tech hi i'm jill i'm from toronto
where are you from get to know each
other see if you're a good fit and you
do that by putting out valuable content
and then people comment it or share it
or save it for later ask you a question
or whatever it might be
that's how you get people to know you
and then once people know you you want
to get them to
like you you can st and then once you
get them to like you to trust you and no
one say trust you buy from you this is
called the know like trust framework and
it's a video that's pinned on my tick
tock profile it is my second most
popular video of all time
because the key is people don't just
wake up one morning ready to buy from
you no one's waking up to stay and
saying hey i think i'm gonna hire the
google pro today no
but there are 55 000 of you on tick tock
and other 1500 on instagram and 1500 on
twitter and 500 on youtube and 1800
email subscribers who heard about me
somehow and liked me enough to subscribe
and that's great so to those people who
already follow or subscribe or like me
they are interested in hearing a bit
more from me i'm still not gonna hard
sell like now that you subscribed bye
bye bye but i can change the messaging a
little bit i can go a little more in
depth for example if i were to share a
tick tock video that's like okay this is
going to be a five minute lesson on how
to launch a search campaign to detailed
too nitty-gritty it's not gonna get a
wide reach but you know what
that's okay even if it only gets a
thousand views that's super valuable for
my target audience and it's gonna move
them from liking to trusting so even
within the same platform you want to
have some content that has wide appeal
and is going to bring people in to know
you like here's a quick tip or um one
thing i bet you didn't know
and then the people who like you you can
create other content that probably only
they will see but that they'll engage
with and will get them to trust you
really detailed stuff how to set up
dynamic or marketing or here's how
you're gonna set up conversion tracking
in google analytics because the people
who don't like that stuff aren't going
to engage and that's okay they're not
going to be a customer anyway but the
people who do engage with that stuff are
going to go to trust you and that is
where they are really primed to buy from
you and that's where they're going to
start reaching out to you as some of the
people live here today have done they're
going to send you a message fill out the
contact form on your website um if
you're a product-based business they may
just go ahead and buy from that but say
hey you know here's my business
challenge can you help me hey i really
need help getting started on google ads
or i saw your video about no like trust
can you help me do that for my business
and that is going to get them ready to
buy from you i see someone in the
comments here i agree with your points
very eye opening but i'm ready for the
butt bring on the butt that sounds wrong
but the yes and bring it on absolutely
so we see someone here asking a question
that i love so i'm going to read it out
for all of you where do you draw the
line where the potential customers use
your tips by themselves
this is a thing that i believe so many
people get wrong
information should be free
especially as a service provider my
opinion is you should give it all away
tell them everything you know because
you know why goofy stream who's asking
this
most people will not do it for
themselves not because they can't
they won't either because they don't
have the time or they don't feel
confident doing it or they're worried
about making a mistake
by giving it all away for free that's
how you build trust and then even though
potential customers could use their tips
by themselves most won't they're going
to reach out to you and say hey can you
help me do this and even if they do it
by themselves i'm going to give you a
specific example i had a google ads
coaching client who booked a session
with me two weeks ago
and came to the session with a list of
questions
and when he shared his screen with me i
saw he had a google doc pages and pages
of notes he'd taken from watching my
tick tock videos and i loved that and so
he had been watching my videos for
months implementing my advice but there
were certain things he still had
questions about so he booked an hour
with me and we went boom boom boom boom
boom boom boom through his questions and
it was so cool for me to see because
most people don't do this most people
say i saw you on tik tok i don't know
where to start help me do it he had done
it by himself but still hired me and we
were able to have the most productive
session i've ever seen he said in your
video you said that i need to do this
but what i found is that what should i
do here
so my advice to you especially as a
service provider is to feel like you're
giving it all away for free
because you are and that's what builds
the trust that key component before
people are ready to buy and they'll
reach out to you for help with the
implementation
okay give it all away for free
information is free talk is cheap
doing it is the really hard part
thank you for that question so for those
who are just joining or just jumping in
my name is jill i started my business
exactly a year ago today of when i'm
filming this in may 2022 and i'm sharing
the exact process i follow to start my
business so whether you're watching this
live on tick tock with me right now or
the replay later on youtube drop any
questions in the comments and i will
answer them to the best of my abilities
a quick recap for those who are just
joining in and then we'll keep going to
start a business you want to first start
with your target customer
then what are some of the challenges
they're facing i don't like to call this
pain points that feels it can be just
what are the problems they're facing the
challenges they're facing
which of those problems are you gonna
help them solve and how do you uniquely
help them solve it
the benefit to them of working with you
then from there you're going to pick one
platform where you feel comfortable
creating content and start creating
valuable content you should feel like
you're giving it all away from free
share everything you know in a way
that's going to add value for people
that's how you're going to get the wide
reach tips and tricks and helpful and
entertainment all that stuff and then
that's going to bring people in to know
you and once people know you you can get
a little bit more into the nitty-gritty
sharing more details which gets them to
like you and then of those who like you
you can get even deeper and share even
more value even more into the leads
which gets people to trust you and once
people trust you that's when they're
ready to buy from you i'm going to give
you another example of another google
ads coaching client i worked with last
week
so last week in case you're watching
this later was may 2022 she first saw me
on tik tok in the summer of 2021
signed up for my email newsletter in
july 2021
did not open a single issue even though
i'd send it three times a month until
february 2022 so until like six months
later so she would be what we'd consider
an unengaged subscriber but my inbox my
emails kept hitting her inbox and
eventually
in february 2022 she opened one because
something changed for her nothing to do
with me but something changed for her
she had a client who needed help with
google ads and she thought google ads i
know the google pro i'm going to reach
out to her and so boom in february i had
sent an email with google ads in the
subject and she responded and then hired
me the point is if i had tried to sell
sell sell to this person in august 2021
and september 2021
wouldn't have made sense she didn't have
a business need for me but just by
staying present with valuable content
when she was ready she came to me
we have a question here from aladdin you
have a great approach it reminds me of a
book i've read called launch by jeff
walker thank you for sharing that i
haven't read that book but i'll say like
i didn't invent this stuff this is the
advice i share um i am by no means the
first person to talk about no like trust
i am by no means the first person to say
start with a customer but my job here as
a marketing coach and teacher and
trainer is to try to take all this
different information whether explicitly
or implicitly and package it together in
a way that's useful for you
so thank you for sharing that
okay so you're creating this content now
you're paying attention to your gauge
and metrics you're seeing what works and
people are gonna start reaching out to
you
and here's the thing when people reach
out to you first of all you want to make
sure it's easy to reach out to you so on
your profile it should say should they
visit your website are your dms going to
be open comment on videos whatever it
might be and then pay attention to the
questions people are asking because
that's going to give you even more ideas
for the kind of content you should
create and the objections people are
facing
for example one of the most common
questions i get when people reach out to
me is what happens in an hour together
what do we actually do
and at first i was like well it depends
on you well that depends on you what we
do depends on you but i realize that
answer was not serving my customers well
and for every one person who does reach
out to you to ask the question there are
at least 10 people who have that
question don't reach out and end up not
becoming a customer you've lost them
so you want to create content that
addresses that so i recently created a
video about what to expect in an hour
with me and as you can guess that is not
designed to be a wide reach video that
video didn't perform well by most
measures but it's so useful that i have
that because people who are already in
that like and trust face can now see
that video and it answers their question
without them having to ask and if i do
get that question now
in an email i can answer and then share
that video and make it feel more
personal to people which they really
like
so that is how i started my business now
i can't give a lesson about starting a
business without acknowledging the
immense privilege that i had starting
mine
i worked at google for six years i went
to harvard business school those are two
big pieces of trust badges that
obviously also help really convert
prospects into customers for me so yes
that was really helpful to me and i
cannot underplay the privilege that i
have there but even with or without that
privilege these steps i've laid out are
steps that anyone can follow because you
don't have to work to google or gone to
harvard to have unique value that you
can offer for people
one more thing i'll say especially if
you're a service provider or a
freelancer
it may be hard for you to feel like an
expert and so remember x
is relative i
experts most people are
beginners
don't shy away if you don't feel like
you're
the most
so you don't
build a success
starting a business you want to start
with your customer
figure out what challenges they're
facing how you
clip it
solve their
fake about that that brings
to know you
and then buy
give away
come to
please let me know if you have any
questions i'm going to turn off this
filter
i see
let me know and i will answer them
please
well uh
this filter there we go
no effect
uh
exactly a year ago today
my own business i'm a marketing
consultant teacher actually
later today and marketers and
entrepreneurs
about starting a business
this live or if you
play later please
question
my ability
to take us
the
moment is when i recorded and then
posted my first tick tock video and
i remember
so shy and so embarrassed waited has
been
and even my first week on t you know i
interviewed
followers
but like i didn't tell anyone i knew i
was on tick tock
and i chose the username gopro
because i was to use my real name
i have my reader
my pro
um and now here a year later with 54 000
tick tock followers
and
i just you know six figure revenue ever
70 clients this year
and i feel really blessed and honored
and so that's why
most of my clients don't talk anymore
because my business has really shifted i
go on
instagram or linkedin or other places
but i love her and i love to share
advice with you
when i first got started on tick tock
there were so many other i looked up to
as well that i found really helpful to
me
because i have to start getting my next
client so
any questions about starting a business
running a business
tool let me know and i will help you out
as best as i can question here
so i created the getting started on
google
free google
set up when you're starting out and
this for free
bizarre but then it all
quickly
uh
last week redesigned it
is
later
my business
else